---
title: northspring
permalink: /about-us/northspring/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
---
<h1><strong>School Rules</strong></h1><p><strong>School Value: Responsibility</strong></p><p><strong><u>Punctuality</u></strong></p><p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Punctuality is a habit that must be instilled from young.&nbsp; Students must be in school during term time unless they are unwell.</p><p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students must be punctual for school and for all school functions. Students are to assemble in school by 7.25 a.m. at the respective assembly areas. Flag raising will be conducted at 7.30 a.m. sharp.&nbsp; Any student who arrives later than 7.30 a.m. will be considered late.</p><p>3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; If a student is late more than 3 times per semester, he/she will be issued a letter of advice.&nbsp; The Conduct Grade will be affected for those who are constantly late and student management action will be taken against these students.&nbsp;</p><p>4.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students are <u>not allowed</u> to leave the school compound during curriculum hours without permission. This includes those who are attending after-school activities in the afternoon (e.g. CCA, Enrichment, Remedial, Supplementary, LSP) and are not allowed to leave the school premise until such activities have ended. Parents are required to <u>pick up their child personally</u> during school hours if there is any immediate family emergency to attend to.</p><p>5.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; As regular attendance is essential in achieving effective teaching and learning, the opportunity for learning and growth is lost when the students do not attend school or are late for school.</p><p>6.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; To ensure students’ presence in school is consistent for learning, the school will keep track of students with a prevalent VR (private) record and work closely with parents / guardians to support the student for regular attendance.</p><p></p><p><strong><u>Attire and Appearance</u></strong></p><p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Every student must understand the purpose of rules in instilling discipline and maintaining safety in the school.</p><p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>There must be uniformity in appearance when students come to school.&nbsp; Students are to wear the prescribed school uniform and modification to the uniform is not allowed</strong>. (Please refer to photos for examples of school attire).</p><p>3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students’ attire must be neat and tidy.</p><p>4.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Girls with long hair (longer than the collar) must have it tied neatly in a ponytail or in plaits.&nbsp; Long fringe must be pulled back with a hair band or hair clip. Only black hair accessories are accepted.&nbsp;</p><p>5.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Girls are not allowed to wear make-up including lining their eyes with eyeliner or kohl.</p><p>6.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Boys must have short and acceptable hairstyles.&nbsp; Boys are not allowed to shave closely to the scalp on one side and have longer fringe on the other side.</p><p>7.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>All male students must be clean-shaven at all times. Moustache and beards are not allowed.</strong></p><p>8.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Hair at the back must be sloped and should not touch the school uniform collar.</p><p>9.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Disciplinary action will be taken against students who continuously break the rules despite counselling and reminders sent. Parents are to ensure that the student appears with acceptable hairstyle during term time for uniformity.</p><p>10.&nbsp; Fancy hairstyle, dyeing or highlighting of hair is not allowed.</p><p>11.&nbsp; Fingernails must be kept clean and short</p><p>12.&nbsp; No jewellery must be worn to school.&nbsp; Only plain ear studs (black, gold or silver) are allowed.&nbsp; <strong>For safety, girls are not allowed to wear jewellery or other accessories to school.</strong></p><p>13.&nbsp; Spot check will be conducted and students are given up to 3 days to rectify and comply with standards.</p><p></p><p></p><p><strong>School Value: Compassion</strong></p><p><strong><u>School Safety</u></strong></p><p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The school must be a safe place for everyone.&nbsp; <strong>Students are not allowed to have in their possession any weapon.&nbsp; They are also not allowed to bring any weapon-like items which is intended to be used to cause harm to others.</strong> Action will be taken against students who possess such weapons.</p><p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Unauthorized electronic, communication, entertainment or gaming devices capable of capturing, storing, displaying and/or transmitting visual, audio or verbal information are not allowed in the school compound regardless of the time of the day. Examples of prohibited items include mobile phones, cameras, tablets and smart wrist watches.&nbsp;&nbsp; The school will not be held responsible for the loss of students’ electronic devices.&nbsp; Unauthorized use of electronic devices will be confiscated and will only be returned to the student’s parent/guardian.&nbsp;</p><p>3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; While the school recognises that parents need the ease and convenience of contacting their child after school hours, students are not encouraged to bring mobile phones to school.&nbsp; The phone <u>must be switched off and be used only during recess at the canteen upon dismissal or outside school</u>.&nbsp; The student is responsible for taking care of his / her own belongings and should not flaunt it or invite envy and draw attention to it. The school will not be held accountable for any damage or losses.</p><p>4.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; If a teacher has authorized the use of electronic devices for educational purposes, students are expected to use them responsibly and in compliance with the school’s anti-bullying and anti-cyberbullying policies. Students must not photograph, video, record, or post on social media of students or staff members without permission.</p><p>5.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Every North Springer will adhere to the school vision to be <strong>Confident, Cultured and Aspiring Learners</strong>. Students are to learn good habits and always exercise the right values. They must demonstrate respect to themselves, their peers, teachers and school property.&nbsp; The school advocates <strong>Grow, Empower and Motivate (GEM)</strong> to students at all times.</p><p>6.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; As a school community, we will exercise care, support and respect for one another.&nbsp; There is <strong>Zero Tolerance </strong>for bullying at NSPS.&nbsp; Bullying includes physical, psychological and cyber bullying. The school will mediate and counsel students involved in bullying.&nbsp; The school will take serious actions against students who repeatedly hurt others despite counselling, mediation and warning.</p><p>7.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The school has a student management process in place and students who do not adhere to school rules will be meted with the appropriate consequences.&nbsp; Parents are requested to work closely with the school so that we educate every student to take responsibility for their own actions.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>School Value: Integrity</strong></p><p><strong><u>Nurturing Minds</u></strong></p><p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; All students must participate in the flag-raising and pledge taking ceremony at the start of every school day.&nbsp; <strong>Students who are Singapore Citizens must sing the National Anthem and take the Pledge. Students will take the Pledge with the right fist over the heart</strong>.</p><p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; In order to show respect to the nation, non-Singapore citizens must stand at attention and remain respectful during the singing of the National Anthem and the recitation of the Pledge.</p><p>3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; For every child to find meaning in his/her learning, he/she must be ardent about learning. He/she must be proud to be a North Springer and be ardent on learning the academics, values and social emotional competencies.</p><p>4.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students must be committed to their holistic learning.&nbsp; The process of learning is as important as the product.&nbsp; Hence, every student must complete all homework, worksheets and corrections assigned by the teacher dutifully and handed in on time.&nbsp; They must use the <strong>GEM beats</strong> to manage their assignments and time well.&nbsp; Parents are to help monitor that their child is completing all work assigned on time.</p><p>5.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students must learn the habit of organising their daily work so that everything is in order for their revision purpose.&nbsp; All worksheets must be neatly files in the respective subject files and handed to the teacher for checking when required to.</p><p>6.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Remedial lessons will only be catered to students who really need the assistance for closer coaching. Parents are to ensure that their child attends the remedial lessons if they have been selected for them.</p><p>7.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students are encouraged to act responsibly by taking ownership in packing their bags every day and bringing the necessary books/materials to school. Parents/domestic helpers are discouraged from delivering any items to our students during school hours to allow them the opportunity to learn and be more responsible. Such acts also cause disruption and additional work for our Office Staff and the school reserves the right to not accede to such requests.</p><p>8.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students must exercise <strong>Integrity </strong>during all tests/examinations. Students are considered to have cheated tests/examinations when they are found:&nbsp;</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; copying &nbsp;from another student or allowing another student to copy via various forms of communication that include verbal/non-verbal gestures, display of writing materials; retrieving information by any electronic means that include computerised wrist watches, mobile phones, digital cameras etc.&nbsp; (list is not exhaustive)</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; attempting to amend marks or change answers on marked exam scripts.</p><p>9.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Any student who has cheated or attempted to cheat, or collaborated with others with the intention to cheat, will have to go through School Exam Board’s investigations.&nbsp; If found guilty, severe actions will be taken against all students involved.&nbsp; Decision by school is final.&nbsp;</p><p></p><p></p><p><strong>School Value: Resilience</strong></p><p><strong><u>Strive For Excellence</u></strong></p><p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The school provides a holistic development programme for our students.&nbsp; Every North Springer will be confident and self-directed in his/her learning.</p><p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; At the end of every co-curricular programme, students will be required to perform / share their learning.&nbsp;</p><p>3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; This can be in the form of performance, oral/written presentation, publication or reflection.&nbsp; This is aligned to the school’s approach in developing confidence and commitment in every student.</p><p>4.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; All P3 – P6 must attend every Modular CCA session unless a valid written reason is provided and permission is sought from the CCA teacher.&nbsp; For students who are selected for SPARK CCAs, they must maintain 75% attendance or they may be dropped from the respective CCAs.</p><p>5.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Every student will be provided opportunities and skills to be a leader.&nbsp; Leadership opportunities will be provided in a tiered approach.</p><p>6.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students must adopt an excellence mind-set and do the best that they can.&nbsp; They must challenge themselves to realise their potential.&nbsp; Every student must set academic and character goals every year to work towards their individual purpose. They will be closely monitored and coached throughout the year so that they can reach their optimal best.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h3><strong>School Rules and Consequences</strong></h3><p>The school believes that good discipline is an important contributing factor towards creating an effective student-centric school. Our student management policies and procedures foster self-discipline and desired behaviours that are aligned to the school values. The following consequences serve as a guide and depending on the severity of the offences, appropriate student management action/s will be meted out in consultation with the School Leaders and Key Personnel in-charge of student management matters.</p><p>If students violate the school rules and need to be disciplined, the school seeks the understanding of parents and guardians to support the Student Development Team (SDT) when student management actions are administered.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Category A:</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Offences</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>1st Occurrence &amp; Beyond</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Late coming</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Improper attire and grooming</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Littering</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Not doing assignments</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Counselling by Form Teacher/ Co-Form Teacher/Subject Teacher</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Home Involvement</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Warning / Letter of Advice (Late coming)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Detention</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Case to be referred to SDT for further course of action with proactive strategies to be taken by school and home.</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><p><strong>Category B:</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Offences</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>1st Occurrence &amp; Beyond</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Leaving school compound without permission / Truancy</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Disruptive behaviour</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Using vulgar language / gesture</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Depending on the severity of the offence, the consequences meted out may include one or more of the following:</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Home Involvement</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Counselling</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Behaviour Contract</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Corrective work order</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Detention and reflection</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Caning</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Internal suspension</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Out-of-school suspension</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Loss of privilege/s</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Ineligibility for awards</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Other alternatives deemed appropriate to correct unacceptable behaviour</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><p><strong>Category C</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Offences</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>1st Occurrence &amp; Beyond</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Bullying (Verbal &amp; Physical), Cyberbullying</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Gangsterism / Fighting / Assault</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Open defiance / rudeness to teacher or school personnel</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Theft / Other acts of dishonesty</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Pornography</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Forgery</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Smoking</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Gambling</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Outrage of modesty / inappropriate behaviour</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vandalism / Damage to public property</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Cheating / Attempting to cheat in tests and examinations</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Depending on the severity of the offence, the consequences meted out may include one or more of the following:</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Home Involvement</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Counselling</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Behaviour Contract</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Corrective work order</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Detention and reflection</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Caning</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Internal suspension</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Out-of-school suspension</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Restitution</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Loss of privilege/s</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Ineligibility for awards</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Other alternatives deemed appropriate to correct unacceptable behaviour</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><h4><strong>School Attire</strong></h4><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students are to wear prescribed school uniform with pride to school (including holiday, school activities, school functions and school outings). No modifications of the school uniform is allowed.</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>P1 – P2</strong>: Students are allowed to wear school PE T-shirt and PE shorts. The PE T-shirt must be always tucked in.</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>P3 – P6:</strong> Students may wear school PE T-shirt and PE shorts on days when there is no PE lessons / CCAs. However, they are strongly encouraged to wear prescribed school shirt / blouse and shorts / skirts on days when there are no PE lessons or CCAs.</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong><u>From 2024 onwards</u></strong>, <strong>all P1 students</strong> must wear black canvas / PVC&nbsp; school shoes as part of the prescribed school uniform. <strong>P2 – P6 students</strong> have the option to wear white or black canvas / PVC school shoes to school. Only <strong>plain black shoes</strong> are allowed. <strong>Sports shoes must be fully black</strong> with no other colours.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Ornaments, Jewellery</strong></p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; No ornaments or any forms of jewellery, such as necklace and bracelet are allowed.</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (For girls only) Only plain ear studs (black, gold or silver) are allowed.&nbsp; <strong>For safety reasons, girls are not allowed to wear loop earrings as they may pose a danger during play.</strong></p>